So welcome back, guys.
Now let us discuss the memory allocation and the allocation that is, we will going to discuss how operating
system allocates the memory from each segment and they allocate the memory from each segment when the
process issues mallock and three calls to the operating system.
So you can see that in this diagram.
Suppose the process has already issued a request to the operating system to claim 14 bytes of memory.
So after this call, that snapshot of the memory segment would look something like this, needless to
say, the breakpoint, I will point to this location.
Right.
Now, suppose your process issues another mallock request for 16 bytes of memory.
So what will happen?
The operating system will resolve 16 bytes of data block and of course, the operating system will create
an associated matter block to keep track of this data block.
And the operating system returns that starting address of the data block to your process.
Now, if you remember in the mental block, there was one field called next.
Now that the operating system has assigned a second data block to a process, the next field of the
matter block or the previous allocation?
Would point to the starting address of the next block in this segment, so you can see that the next
field of this matter block is updated to point to the starting address of the next block.
Similarly, if we are process issues, request to claim 20 bites of memory from the hip segment, the
operating system will create a new metal block and a corresponding data block.
Right?
And update the next field pointer of the previous matter block so that it points to the starting address
of the next block and the same process goes on, right.
So finally, let us suppose that your process has requested another 20 bites of memory.
And after this call, the breakpoint that would have settled at this position in this memory segment.
Right.
So you can see that your memory is taking the shape of a legalised right.
So this is how memory allocation is done now let us discuss how the allocation is done.
So welcome back, guys.
Now let us discuss how memory allocation is done, so continuing from the point where we left in the
previous slide, let us suppose that this is a snapshot of the memory segment after the process has
issued the following mellark calls to the operating system.
Now, let us suppose that your process wants to free the memory so the process invokes the free call
and passed the address of the memory location which it wants to free.
So here in this case, the process is passing this particular address.
So now the operating system has received the request to free the memory, which is starting at this
particular address.
Now the question is that how will the operating system know that?
How many bytes of memory it has to free?
Now, this information will come from this matter block, right?
So how the process will actually access this matter block from this address, simply subtract the size
of this matter block and you will get this address right.
So operating system will get that starting address of this matter block and hence the operating system
can access all the fields of this matter block.
So the operating system will read the size field of this matter block and the operating system will
know that it has to three 16 bytes of data block, which is associated with this matter block.
So you can see that the boolean flag, which was false in this matter block, is now set to true.
So true means that the data block associated with this matter block is now free and is available to
provide the memory for future calls by the process.
Similarly, if the process wants to free the block of memory, which is pointed by the pointer for that
is BTR for the same process happens and the operating system uses that information is stored in this
matter block to actually mark this data block as free.
So the mystery that is how the operating system knows that, how many bytes it has to free when the
process actually invoked a free call to free the memory is resolved.
This is one of the most part question that is asked in the interviews that how three knows that, how
many boats it has to free.
So now we understand the concept behind it, that whole free function, Volks.
But of course, there are still many things to be discussed regarding heap memory management.
The story is not yet over.